# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-02-26T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification
* Status: Draft

## Present
* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Erich Bremer](https://ebremer.com)
* Maxime Lecoq-Gaillard
* Marc Haddle
* [TallTed // Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed/) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com)
* [michal](https://id.mrkvon.org)
---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* Pavlik

### Introductions
* Marc Haddle: With Datasolids, we work on healthcare to allow patients to take custody of their data. We have a funcional demo, work in front-end and back-end. An abstraction layer that improves security and allows managing traffic. Very active in SolidOS as well as Solid Practitioners.

---

## Topics

### Mutual understanding between Solid CG and LWS WG

https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-solid/2025Feb/0040.html

* HZ: Recent discussion that was brought up in CG and later taken to LWS. LWS is ok with CG continuing the work as long as there are no significant changes.
* eP: In general, I agree with what was proposed by the LWS WG. The only problem with the specific topic is that Ruben was working on this and he's no longer engaged. It may be easier if the WG would give feedback on that issue. At this moment, the WG does not have a separate working draft. I think it would be important for Ruben's feedback to be included.
* HZ: I'm in the WG as well. I didn't speak to Ruben for long time, I will make sure his feedback is included.

### LWS Use Cases

* HZ: There are two repositiories. One is the spec for the protocol; so far not much progress there. There is also use cases repository; many of you already contributed to the issues. We work on a glossary, there is a PR. Now we are working on extractiong requirements from the use cases; they will go into the draft. In the last meeting, Laurence expressed intent to have a protocol draft available in March or early April. 
* HZ: We are going to close use cases once we have suffcient requirements covering the use case.

### STM Application Launcher

* eP: Given recent work by Michiel and my discussions with ActivityPods team, plus earlier discussions with Joseph Guillaume. I think we could get together for a focused meeting.
* eP: Mostly an announcement. Michiel recently presented his work. There is also work in ActivityPods. There were quite a few discussions with Joseph. I will create a scheduling poll today and prioritise the times when Joseph could connect and allow him to participate. I will then post it on matrix and the mailing list.

### Blank nodes to be inserted in N3 Patches

See [PR #711](https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/711)

* HZ: There were conversations on matrix and in the PR itself.
* ML: How can we move forward on this topic?
* ML: Currently, we can't insert blank nodes. I understand why it is forbidden for deletion. I think for insertions, we should allow them. Ruben seems to be against; I'm not sure if he understood that we just want to allow them in insertions. Sarven approved PR. How should we move forward?
* eP: I didn't check the minutes of last call. Is Ruben participating? Can Maxime be invited on the LWS call?
* HZ: LWS WG is not close to that point. I don't recall Ruben in WG calls.
* HZ: I would propose for me and Maxime to reach out to Ruben and comment and/or approve the PR.
* JW: Ruben is at Oxford to give a talk, I can talk to him. There seems to be a misunderstanding. There is also a point, should we be proceding with this change given that N3 is not a WG spec. Should we signal possible deprication. Dorthe is discussing making N3 a standard for a while. 
* HZ: I think the WG is nowhere near making this kind of decisions.
* eP: useful feedback. What Sarven brought up we discussed on a few occasions. I suggested that in the end we may have to go with SPARQL updates. If the current blank node is a bug in the current spec, should we update the spec with a small update. For Solid, trying to move to SPARQL updates would be a major change, not consistent with the WG request.
* JW: I agree. A potential phrasing would be that we recommend using SPARQL updates vs N3 patch.
* eP: sounds reasonable. We could upen a pull request with the desired wording. I had a little chat with PAC about the maturity level. It may be worth running this by PAC - Pierre Antoine.
* Michal: I have an impression that SPARQL Update is not a part of the specification. If it is not I would find it confusing to be recommended. I did the move from SPARQL to N3 in some of my work.
* ML: I'm not against SPARQL-update. I think N3 patch has been introduced to resolve issues that were found in SPARQL-update (different interpretations). We may need to detail SPARQL-update more to also address those issues (so everyone use the SPARQL-update in a consistent way). 
* JW: With Ruben I will only clarify some details and possible misunderstanding. It would be good if someone else would go throug the specification. If it is there we can create PR in with suggested note. If it is not there, we need to procede with the current PR. There is a question of raising a note to say that SPARQL Update may be reintroduced. In both cases we should cc PAC. 
* eP: I believe SPARQL update is not in the spec. Since Ruben was working on N3 patch, I assume he's fully aware of the issue Maxime is raising. I assume Ruben should have a good recollection of the reason for dropping SPARQL update.
* JW: The reason to drop SPARQL update was related to HTTP responses, even if you have append only access. Which would leak information. Custom response codes could be use with N3 Patch. We could also use SPARQL Update with 
* eP: woudl it be possible to use SPARQL update with a different/customized media type.
* JW: sounds like a good idea, bring it up.
* ML: I looked into the source code of CSS, it is only 3 lines that need to be changed to allow blank nodes. See https://github.com/CommunitySolidServer/CommunitySolidServer/blob/e5e7b95327f18b032742d8414e0529913a6ba4de/src/http/input/body/N3PatchBodyParser.ts#L124
* HZ: I think we have a path forward.

### Group Based Access Policies

* eP: Simple diagram with Organizations, Roles/Teams, and People

![image](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/SkcouAockl.png)

* HZ: It was discussed during last Solid Practicioners meeting. My opinion changes every time, there are issues related to an information leak. I think we agreed to have a separate STM. I remember that Sebastian from ActivityPods
* eP: if the authorization system does not have access to the organization specific teams/groups, it cannot efficiently enforce authorization. I think we should differentiate membership from autonomous organization from roles within an org.
* eP: Yesterday also Christoph preesnted their work https://publikationen.bibliothek.kit.edu/1000174700/154929747
* HZ: I think proxies can be a good think, it breaks the audit trail. 
* Michal: I have another issue with the gruop. When the vcard group is colocated with the resources, then it doesn't need to be public. This would mean that the list would be distributed and copied. I also have other issues like scalability.
* JW: Delegated access, it is worth to be aware that OIDC4VP is quite popular and UMA flow is used in current Solid OIDC standards. I would expect that within LWS it is quite likely that a lot of delegation will be done using OIDC4VP flow.
* https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0-07.html
* Michal: I'm aware of VCs and how they can resolve issue with groups. It always depends on some issuer and it seems to be a centralized authority. It may also be an issue for the kind of groups Pavlik mentioned. 
* eP: I am working with ActivityPods and NextGraph. They now work on data grants using VCs. 
https://kyledenhartog.com/delegation-in-verifiable-credentials/
* eP: I will work with them on integrating SAI data grants. I don't think they are mutually exclusive. I am also interested in OIDC for VP mentioned by JW. I agree it's an interesting direction.

