# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-07-16T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Chair
* elf Pavlik

## Present

* Hadrian Zbarcea
* [Matthias Evering](https://solidweb.me/testpro/)
* Marc Haddle
* Erich Bremer
* Jesse Wright
* Rui Zhao (constantly losing connection due to issues on my side)

## Regrets


## Scribes

* teamwork

---

## Announcements

ME: can share paypal subscription experiment (adoption) offering teamid.live (https://www.serverproject.de/solid/main.php)

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

---

## Review Action items

## Topics


## Actions

* eP: reach out to community to find interest in applying for a grant to maintain the test suite
* HZ: reach out to Laurin, Graphmetrix and community to find interest for a local-first/also-local archiving format
* eP: start pad to gather ideas on ongoing relation with NLnet
  * test suite and implementations
  * deployment, maybe nix based scripts
  * working with existing successfull OS - discourse, ofn, gitlab ...
