# W3C Solid Community Group: Weekly

* Date: 2025-05-14T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg
* Chat: https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification

## Present
* [Marc Haddle](marc.haddle@datasolids.com)
* [elf Pavlik](https://elf-pavlik.hackers4peace.net)
* [Christoph Braun - uvdsl](https://github.com/uvdsl)
* [Thhck ( Theo )](https://github.com/thhck)
* Jesse Wright
* Erich Bremer


## Regrets
* [TallTed // Ted Thibodeau Jr](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) [mastodon:@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed) (OpenLinkSw.com)


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Guidelines
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/w3c-cg/solid/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Conduct](https://www.w3.org/policies/code-of-conduct/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* https://fireflies.ai/

---


Overview

    Meeting Scheduling Issues: Low attendance linked to current meeting time; a scheduling poll is created to optimize weekly meeting slot. Manual attendance required while AI tool is being tested for notes.
    SAI Playground Demo: Elf Pavlik showcased early SAI playground version for visualizing data grants and delegation. Feedback on usability and clarity for authorization flows requested; emphasis on improving representation of delegation chains.
    Delegation & Policy Enforcement: Discussed access grants vs. third-party sharing limits. Need for various implementation approaches before standardization. Agreed on necessity of technical enforcement and potential legal frameworks.
    Linked Web Storage Progress: Led by Hadrian with Erich Bremer getting more involved, potentially as a spec editor. Preference for adding use case variants to existing scenarios rather than creating new ones. Suggestions to document subtleties via GitHub.
    Calendars & Events Data Domains: Focus on leveraging standards like iCal and RDFcal. Plan to use existing vocabularies/tools to bootstrap Solid shapes. Community encouraged to participate in regular updates.
    Custom Domains for Solid Pods: Addressed challenges with CSS lacking custom domain support; importance of user domain migration and link stability highlighted. Theo to contact IndieHosters for collaboration. Grant proposal for CSS improvements due by June 1st.
    Next Steps: Reminder for Solid Practitioners meeting, including Christoph Braun’s presentation on delegation. Open call for agenda items for the next CG meeting; Hadrian to compile suggestions.


Notes
️ Meeting Scheduling and Attendance (00:21 - 07:28)

    AI note-taking tool (Fireflies) tested again; previous attempt failed due to lack of credits.
    Scheduling poll created using an open-source alternative to Doodle to find optimal CG weekly meeting time; feedback requested before wider mailing list distribution.
    Low attendance attributed to current meeting time; poll aims to resolve this.
    Manual attendance requested while AI note-taking is being trialed.

‍ SAI Playground Demo and Feedback (07:29 - 15:01)

    Elf Pavlik demonstrated an early version of the SAI playground for visualizing delegation and data grants among social agents and applications.
    Demo illustrated delegation chains, data grants, and the importance of visualizing authorization flows.
    Feedback requested on usability and suggestions for improving clarity, especially in representing delegation chains and policy enforcement limitations.

Delegation, Authorization, and Policy Enforcement (15:01 - 20:33)

    Discussion on whether access grants can restrict third-party sharing and how delegation limits (number of hops) can be enforced or circumvented.
    Implementation details (e.g., warnings, enforcement) left to individual applications; technical enforcement is limited, but policy and legal frameworks may help.
    Consensus that multiple approaches should be explored before standardizing delegation mechanisms.

Linked Web Storage Use Cases and Variants (20:35 - 28:29)

    Recent progress in Linked Web Storage use cases; Hadrian leading, Christoph Braun becoming more involved as a spec editor.
    Discussion on how to handle use case variants (e.g., sharing data without exposing the full social graph to applications).
    Preference for adding variants to existing use cases rather than creating entirely new scenarios; suggestions for linking or commenting on GitHub issues to capture subtleties.

Data Domains: Calendars and Events (29:16 - 33:22)

    Desire to make progress on calendar and event data domains, leveraging established standards like iCal and RDFcal.
    Plan to bootstrap Solid shapes using existing vocabularies and tools (e.g., ShaclPlay, altashackle); links to resources shared in chat.
    Encouragement for community participation and regular updates in practitioners meetings.

Custom Domains for Solid Pods and Infrastructure Coordination (34:57 - 51:21)

    Discussion on the lack of support for custom domains in CSS (Community Solid Server) and the inefficiency of running separate instances for each domain.
    Use case for allowing users to bring their own domain for easier migration and link stability; especially relevant for early adopters and those outgrowing demo hosting.
    Interest in systematic tracking of development priorities and funding opportunities (e.g., GitHub project board); ODI may help maintain this infrastructure.
    Theo to reach out to IndieHosters about potential collaboration on hosting Solid pods with custom domains.
    Grant proposal for CSS improvements (including custom domains and security) to be prepared by June 1st; suggestion to use a project board as community support evidence.

Wrap-Up and Next Steps (51:21 - 53:12)

    Reminder of the Solid Practitioners meeting the next day, featuring Christoph Braun's presentation on delegation.
    Open call for agenda suggestions for the next CG meeting; Hadrian to prepare the agenda.
    General encouragement for ongoing feedback and participation.


Action items
Unassigned

    Review and provide feedback on the scheduling poll for finding the best CG weekly meeting day and time (06:06)
    Provide feedback on the SAI playground demo, especially regarding visualization and usability for understanding delegation and data grants (14:26)
    Explore and possibly bootstrap calendar and event shapes for Solid using existing vocabularies (iCal, RDFcal) and tooling (ShaclPlay, altashackle) (33:22)
    Add yourself to the meeting attendance list manually while AI note-taking is being tested (33:22)

elf Pavlik

    Send the finalized scheduling poll to the mailing list and invite wider participation (06:06)
    Link the GitHub issue regarding delegation limitations and share with Christoph Braun (16:09)
    Contribute use case variants or subtleties to the Linked Web Storage use cases, either by commenting on existing issues or linking related issues (28:29)
    Coordinate with Hadrian and others, including Jesse and the ODI, to propose a project board or systematic way to track community development priorities and funding opportunities (48:10)

Theo

    Reach out to IndieHosters to gauge their interest in hosting Solid pods with custom domains and report back for potential collaboration (46:11)
    Prepare a grant proposal for CSS improvements, including support for custom domains and security enhancements, ahead of the June 1st deadline (51:16)

-----

elf Pavlik: 01:44 
 It's a round two of trying to use that AI that Jesse recommended for taking notes.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 01:52 
 How did it go last time?

elf Pavlik: 01:54 
 Well, it did record audio but the account Jesse used had no credits so it couldn't do transcription because I think he used all the free credits on his free account. So I created a new account and we just test it again. I have like three credits for three meetings.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 02:13 
 Right.

elf Pavlik: 02:14 
 If we are happy, we can like figure it out how to either get some kind of subscription or actually they. If you. If you share your calendar with them and allow the AI to join all your meetings, then you kind of can use it unlimited. So maybe I just create dedicated account for like solid CG Turing and yeah, we just have a dedicated calendar so you can join all the solid CG events. We'll see how it works. Maybe. Let me ping people that the meeting started. So Christoph, with what I suggested last week that I think would be great if you could present in more detail your work on proxies. Tomorrow there is practitioners meeting. So I will ask everyone if they would like to hold it there because it's more attended than the CG weekly. As you can see, it's not so many people. Hopefully more will join. But what do you think about if practitioners agree to aim two weeks from. No way is it two weeks. Let me check.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 03:52 
 Actually, I talked to Jeff already and he put me on the schedule for tomorrow.

elf Pavlik: 03:56 
 Oh, for tomorrow? Awesome. Yep. He didn't announce it I think but it would be nice surprise.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 04:04 
 Yeah, I think he put me on the schedule like that was his message. Let me double check. Yes, I'm scheduled for May 15, 15 UTC.

elf Pavlik: 04:15 
 Okay, that's great. That's good news.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 04:18 
 Yep.

elf Pavlik: 04:20 
 I guess we will start whoever is here present. Probably the meeting will be pretty short. Let's. Let's see how it goes. Okay. And then again we'll get a chance to see if the fire files or flies or whatever does some decent job. Okay. The link to agenda is the same as always. I'll drop it here. In the chat I made up few topics. So first topic it's finding best CG weekly day and time. I created a scheduling poll using the open source alternative to Doodle. I think it has really great ux. I will announce it on the mailing list. If someone is interested just to taking a look if it makes sense. If I know there's overlap with the liquid Storage Working Group and practitioners. But the idea is just to understand people when people are available and of course we will deconflict those those other meetings. So it's not that you know, CG would kind of like try to schedule at the same time as something else is happening, but just to keep it simple. I think it's good to get an idea where when people are available and if it happens that you know there is a conflict with other one then we can figure it out. But. So I would appreciate if someone can take a look and see if it makes sense to to post it. And then maybe tomorrow I will send to the mailing list and invite everyone to to see because I know that some people have problem today at this time. So that's also one of the reasons that only few people are joining. Hi Tio, how are you? I just noticed.

Theo @thhck: 06:18 
 Hello. Hello. Hello. Hi. Hi everybody.

elf Pavlik: 06:23 
 Just so you know, today we are testing like AI note taking. We wanted to do it last week but something didn't work. So we do giving it another try. Just everyone is aware that we just try to automate describing. Okay so again please take a look at the poll maybe even if you feel like answer and then tomorrow I will share it with the whole mailing list to see if you know if our current meeting slot is the optimal one. The next thing I've been working on a little playground for Sai to make it easier to explain. And I could do like a up to 5 minute demo if someone's interested. I don't know if everyone present would like to see. It's very early, very rough but I would appreciate at some point feedback of people like to. To what they think would be useful to to include in there. And is everyone interested to see like a 5 minute demo or we should. Sure, sure.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 07:29 
 Yeah, let's go.

Marc Haddle: 07:30 
 We love watching stuff in action instead of us just talking about it.

elf Pavlik: 07:34 
 So. Okay, so actually I have a bit of an issue with my Wayland setup. I'm on Linux and I need to join from a second browser to screenshot because Firefox has problem with my virtual cam camera. So I'm using Chrome Chromium for that. But with a screen sharing Chromium has problems. I need to join from Firefox so please give me a second. I'll join from Firefox. So you will see two of me here. But I think we can, we can manage. Okay, I need to mute this tab and I have to share the whole screen with you because if I only share one window there's some like Slow down there, let's try like that. Okay, can you see my screen?

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 08:40 
 There we are now.

elf Pavlik: 08:43 
 Okay, so it's mostly to help like navigate how the delegation works, how the data grant work. And the main assumption inside is that you have multiple autonomous agents which can be individuals or organizations. We call them social agents to distinguish from applications which are software agents. Each social agent here, they act as a data owners or resource owners can have multiple storages. So as we see, acme's organization has two ALICE has two storages and BOB has one. Again, it's up to everyone to choose how they organize the data. But it's assumed that people can have more than one storage they own. And so in those kind of like columns we have those data owners with their storages. And now we can select the end user, so the user who will be accessing the data. So for example, if we select alice, we can see that there are a few data grants here. Here, for example, ACME granted ALICE access to some data in this storage. I will add like the, the indication of which shape trees. So actually in the storage, the way I implemented it, we have things kind of partitioned into data registrations. So there are visualized here like calendars, events, videos as an examples. So also those data grants will be matching specific data registrations. So here just kind of shows that maybe I'll turn off this one for now that the data owners granted access to specific social agents. But also besides social agents, we have applications. And that's also very important inside. And that's like the basic case for delegation. So now we can see, for example, when we click on this data grant, okay, you can see that this one is just giving access to one data instance. It's just highlighting here if we click on this one, okay, I have some issues. Okay, it gives access to the whole registration because the scope is all. But now we can also select application. For example, ALICE didn't authorize just application to access of ACME data. What we can see here based on the data grant from Bob, this is granted from Bob as a data owner. So again the columns are. I have some problem when I share screen. It's really slowing down. So again the columns are the data owners. So you can see that Bob granted access to ALICE and that's the whole registration of calendars and then ALICE delegated to the application she's using that only it can access some selected ones. And you can see you can only select access those selected two. And the last I'm wrapping up this demo and again it will look better just like placeholders for now. And then if we look for example of Bob, this is a little more complex because we have Bob as an end user. So these are the grants that are issued for Bob and Bob is using this application. So here we have a longer delegation chain because as you see the original grant, ACME granted access to ALICE and then ALICE delegated that access to acme's data. Again, what's in this column? It's mapping to this storage. If there was something to this other storage, there would be a second column here. So this data for this data registration in this storage, ACME granted access to all the calendars to alice. Then I'll of course. Okay, we can click on it. You will see that it's all the calendars you can see highlighted in green. Then ALI is delegated only selected ones to Bob and you can see there's only one. And then Bob also delegated the same selected ones to the application he's using. So this is like actually a little more involved delegation that we have. The data owner is acne to Alice, Alice to Bob, and then Bob to application. And we always assume that the end of the Chinese application because I don't know, maybe when we get some neural links we can directly access the data with our brains. But most of the time we use some kind of client application. So there's always like the, the final delegation, the tail of the delegation chain is the application. So that's pretty much what I have so far. There's plenty things I have to add, like the inherited data grants to show you can access calendars and events that are kind of related to those calendars. There are a few other things. Access authorizations to show that you can set a policy that it's spanning across multiple storages and even multiple agents and their storages. So access authorizations give you like a higher level of policies that you can set that it's not limited to a single storage. So there are quite few things. My main kind of request for feedback. If you looked at SAI and you find some things hard to understand and you think that this kind of way of visualizing it could be like, you know, interactive way, useful to understand it. Please let me know like what you would like to see that you can, you know, click around and select some things and, and hopefully it would help people understand those nuances. I know that some people find it complicated. I think once, once kind of it's explained well, it's probably easier to, to understand than just by reading the spec. So there are Already two primers. And this would be like a. Another accompanying resource to. Yeah, when we have conversations or you know, someone tries to explain something, eventually one should be able to load it and you know, maybe share screen and then as we discuss select something and say okay, that's how it works that it's how it's intended to work. This was my little demo here, let me now turn it off and I will leave from the other browser. Any questions, suggestions on that topic? Go ahead. Christoph.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 15:01 
 Yeah, thank you, Pavlik. So I think the visualization definitely will help people to understand the topic.

elf Pavlik: 15:08 
 Help.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 15:11 
I think from a visual standpoint, maybe you could manage to make it a bit clearer that there is this chain of authorizations, that these really depend on each other. This was the one thing I was a bit missing from the status quo. But again I think it's a good, good aid definitely. I'd have a question regarding the delegation process. If an access grant or an authorization access authorization is given, can a party decide not to enable third party sharing? So like Acme disables that Alice can delegate to Bob or whatever. Did you think of that?

elf Pavlik: 16:09 
 Yes. So that's what we. I'm now like having regular meeting with activity pods mostly Sebastian and that's what they proposed. So there is an issue I believe somewhere on. On GitHub I can link you to that in the data interrupt repo when they want to have two features like one just binary allow or not allow delegation. And second, you can set a limit how far you want to be able to delegate. So you can say you can only do two hoops. And we also discussed that since everyone has to use application to access something that applications are excluded. So the tail of the chain, even if you don't allow delegation, you assume at least when you share data with someone they need to be able to delegate the application. Again there's still use case when the resource owner restricts applications. So we also want to support that. But that would be a different mechanism. But for just for delegation it would be the assumed that you know, you can always add application because you somehow have to, you know, exercise your access. So you will need to use application. But yeah, so we work on adding those mechanisms again to be not only if you can delegate or not, but also how many steps you are allowed. And every time you delegate it will be, you know, like removed. One step less, one step less. And also my comment here that in practice you cannot truly enforce it because you can share credentials, you can set up some proxy to impersonate and so on, you can make a copy of the data. But as this kind of like a policy that, hey, if you somehow share the access using some workaround, you maybe break some like a policy attached to this. Exactly. I think it will be more in this spirit that you know, like you're not supposed to do that. Maybe there'll be legal consequence going practice, you know, like there are workarounds for that. So you cannot like fully enforce that policy from, you know, the access enforcement perspective.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 18:06 
 Sure, yeah, exactly. Now that we will see that exact issue tomorrow, I guess with the proxy pattern that we had where we just said, okay, the data resource owner has a policy that says you're allowed to forward this data or share this data with a third party under these conditions. And of course they can share it with any other party outside of that scope, but then they are just not adhering to the policy and whatever, you can't protect against that. We know that. But still it shouldn't from automatization perspective, like telling an automatic agent, hey, you're not supposed to do that and then they adhere to it. That's useful.

elf Pavlik: 18:54 
 Great. Since the delegation is handled by authorization agents like the delegated party, I think you also have access control manager apps or something like that. I don't remember exactly.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 19:04 
 Exactly.

elf Pavlik: 19:07 
 I think it's pretty much up to implementation configuration to either prevent someone from delegating if it's forbidden, or maybe show a warning in a browser when you access something that may be certificate is incorrect, it will give you, hey, probably you don't want to do that, but you can take advanced and kind of override this and still do what you want. So I think that probably should be left to implementations. And again, because in the end you can do your best, but you cannot enforce that. So I'm quite curious to see how different people approach it. And again, I'm really looking forward to see your work tomorrow. And quick disclaimer, you know what I did with SAI or before there were more people collaborating and now activity pods. It's all exploration, research and development. If we find different ways of meeting the same requirements and satisfying the same use cases, I'm not super attached. I'm not very emotionally attached to, hey, this is the way we should do it. It's mostly can we accomplish the things, can we have some kind of privacy properties and how we do it. It's like technical detail, which I'm very open to have different approaches. So from my side there's no competition between different approaches. It's mostly we need different ways of exploring something and I think it's great that people are doing that.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 20:35 
 Yeah, same here. I think we don't have the standard solution yet and we can only profit from different perspectives on the same problem.

elf Pavlik: 20:46 
 And I think before we agree on a solution, it's good to explore different paths because then you know, we hopefully get like the best of all worlds. So I think that's part of incubation, that we explore different way of doing something and then once we get more experience with them, say okay, now we understand the problem better possible solution. And hopefully with that experience we can arrive at a better final standard where we can reach consensus. So that's my approach practically. Okay, so that was site playground. Again, feel free to reach me on matrix or post comments somewhere like in a site repo, wherever you like. I welcome more feedback. Moving to the next topic. Link web storage use cases. I've seen some movement in the in the repo. I think there was first pull request merge with basic use cases. I understand Hadron is the the one leading the effort. Well, I remember Christoph at least you are also pretty involved in the use cases. I think also Eric is in a working group. Again I'm not following that. I am. Okay, so do you see what are the next step based on? Because it's like hundred something use cases. I also have seen requests from PR1 which is kind of like adding all of them, like just at least references. Do you know what's the plan for processing those use cases and integrating further in the document?

Erich Bremer: 22:25 
 Basically sort of digest them all down. I know Hadrian's been grouping them. I'm just sort of ramping up a lot more right now since I'm going to be end up being a bit more involved. Looks like I'll be one of the editors for the spec. So I'm just, I'm going through it now, digesting things, getting up to speed with what Adrian's been doing.

elf Pavlik: 22:46 
 Okay, that's nice. My main question would be because I didn't want to like throw even more use cases knowing that there's already a lot of it. But I would still like to work with some kind of variants of use cases. So I give one example and again it's based on some kind of requirements that we found when we were implementing SAI that for example when we talk about sharing data. I think the current use case is mentioning like authoring tool which I understand implies application but we had at some point requirement that we want to be able to share data but do not disclose to the specific application the whole social graph. So of course, if in the data that the application has access to, there are some web IDs, the web, the application will kind of, you know, have access just to, to those web IDs in the data. But we do not want to like just completely give, give a wild card access to the whole social graph of application. So that's one of the reasons that for example, the, the main, main flow implemented at this moment is that the application redirects to the authorization agent, authorizations happens over there and then user goes back to application. So this way users can share data without disclosing the social graph to application. And my question is, like, where would this kind of requirement and use case belong? Would that be like a variant of an existing use case? Like how do you see covering those like, you know, variants of how things can be done and what requirements are kind of related to, you know, those little different conditions?

Erich Bremer: 24:31 
 I'm not certain where they're gonna go right now. I'm still, like I said, I just began looking through the existing use cases as they are to try to get my head around them all. My personal preference is I'd rather hear any and all use cases, even if they're new ones, even if they aren't part of that current pool. It's considering everything that is of interest to make sure that we have the foundations for something that's extensible, that doesn't require a rewrite.

elf Pavlik: 25:01 
Go ahead, Christoph.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 25:04 
 Yeah, I agree with that. And it makes the subtleties apparent or more obvious because I think some people from the community, they're quite clear on that we need this distinction between the authorization app or agent or whatever mechanism there is to authorize access, that this should be distinct from some consuming business application or personal application. Right. So there, there is this notion that people are aware of and I believe these people, me included, will like fight for that. But still, if there are any use cases you can give us as ammunition, so to speak, that would be great.

elf Pavlik: 25:59 
 Yeah. So my main dilemma here is that I would want to introduce completely new use case, building a new scenario or maybe work with variants to say, okay, we have the existing use case, let's stick with that, but add a variant to it to say, but it's the same situation, but there's additional kind of requirement of saying actually Alice, don't want to just. Or whatever. Ginion or seven of hearts, whatever names we are using that they don't want to disclose the whole social graft application. So instead of introducing completely new use case, my preference would be just to have a use case and then like some variants of those subtleties, but not like completely separate use cases that someone has to imagine the whole scenario from scratch. And then maybe because of those differences in the scenarios, like different names, different whatever, we would like get distracted from what actually differs in those different variants. And for me would be important how we can actually work with those variants. Say, okay, the whole thing is the same, but there's one variation on that.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 27:13 
 I mean from just an operational standpoint, either comment on the existing issue or if you can. I'm not sure how that works on GitHub actually I've never used that feature: open a sub issue. Or create a new issue, link the old issue, say everything is the same except for these things. I think then that would also work except Erich has a different opinion on that. 
 
 Erich Bremer:
 I'm sorry, follow your point?
 
 Christoph Braun (KIT) - uvdsl:
 So I just was listing ways that would accommodate like public's idea of reusing an existing use case as a basis and then introducing subtleties or like more details, more restrictions on the use case. And I was just saying, well, link the old, link the original use case or comment in that use case with that variant and then people will be able to find that variant and pick up the requirements from there. That was my suggestion. 
 
 Erich Bremer:
 Yeah, I would agree with that.

elf Pavlik: 28:29 
 Okay, thank you. I'll try to follow your, your suggestions. And again, there are a few subtleties that I'm. Again it's, I haven't read all the use cases, so maybe they are captured somewhere. But yeah, I'll try to catch up on that. Okay, so thank you for, for, for your feedback. I think unless there are other comments on the use cases, we can jump to the next topic. Okay, so next topic on the agenda is data domains. And last week we discussed calendars and events. I would like to start making progress on that. I here just linked to the catalog. This is Jesse's viewer and welcome. Jesse, I noticed you joined a moment ago.

Marc Haddle: 29:16 
 Thanks for linking the viewer.

elf Pavlik: 29:21 
 And we had discussion with Jeff about the catalog and also like at some point we arrived in the direction that what's in the catalog, it's just like a aggregation of things that are pretty much, you know, its own data domains and they will need more detailed work to, to be able to have apps to work with those domains. And there are already few events. So I think it's interesting angle that as we work on adding things to the catalog we can at the same time start working processing those data domains. My question here is how we want to continue with that. I know that we discussed using the solid shapes repo and maybe work on some shapes for events over there. There are a few people who did some work on calendars also noticed on the chat Melvin was saying he developed recently something there's Tim from Practitioners even though I don't think I've seen him seen him recently on on on the meetings and yeah. So do does anyone have some ideas how you would if you are interested first and secondary how you would like to see the next steps to like start moving towards some kind of, you know, mini speckle at least some basic shapes for calendars and events. Go ahead Jesse.

Jesse Wright: 30:45 
 Calendars and events are not new to the semantic web world. Are you basing these shapes off? Are they shapes of existing vocabularies that you're thinking? If so, what vocabularies are you looking at?

elf Pavlik: 31:01 
 Yes, I think the most established standard is I calendar that it's One of the RFCs I had linked last week. It's in a minute and I think that there's also RDF cal which I understand it's like mapping to rdf so that will be probably my first direction. So it's easy to consume the ICAL feeds and events which I think all of us use in our day to day coordination and have an easy way of importing them and also whatever we have in the storage to have a way to transform and export it to iCal. So that would be my preference to take it from this angle and as soon as possible bridge maybe the solid CG calendar make it available as RDF and as we start scheduling meetings with one another we also start eventually maybe in few months using the solid and still be able to export it to our Google Calendars, Outlook, whatever people are using.

Jesse Wright: 32:02 
 That sounds like a really good plan to me in terms of how to get shapes together from that I would expect that RCAL is either an OWL ontology or an RDFS ontology. Either way, if you go to the awesome shapes repo and I'll link it in the chat as well There's a set of tooling is it awesome semantic shapes? It's a terrible thing to Google. There's a set of tooling that will generate shackle and perhaps also shex constraints based on the the OWL and RDFS definition and I'd suggest that this is how we may want to in general Bootstrap a lot of the shapes that we use in Solid so I've linked that in the chat. I'll add it to the hack md. Now the one that I've used in the past is Shackle Play and I think altashackle but I'm fairly sure Shackle Play is the main one that I've relied upon in the past.

elf Pavlik: 33:22 
 Okay, awesome, we'll take a look at it. And again I also invite people tomorrow during practitioners meeting, whoever is interested to explore it together. And yeah, I'll try to, if not every week, like every other week to have some update and see if we can make stable progress on that. By the way, I would ask everyone I mentioned that we are testing again the fireflies to scribe, but please add yourself to the present so at least we do that manually for now. Okay. Are there any other comments on that topic? Okay, hearing none. We can move to another one and then either we have like any other topics or we can finish earlier. So this one is related to some prior conversations. I had a few questions to Joachim from CSS a few months ago and so the next topic it's a solidcomputer net bring your own custom domain and I know that CSS does not support having custom domains for ports. I understood from my go ahead it.

Jesse Wright: 34:51 
 Supports custom web ids, not necessarily storage, but it definitely supports custom web ids.

elf Pavlik: 34:57 
 Yeah agree with that. So yes you can bring your own web id, but if you have a domain name and you would like your storage to use that domain name. So again if you at some point want to move to a different provider, you could, you know, still keep your domain name and and avoid breaking links or rely on redirects. Currently this is not possible with CSS as I understand one would have to host a dedicated CSS instance per custom domain. So I think it's probably not very efficient for bot providers. Maybe you know, we could explore like what's the overhead without assume that, you know, there's probably lots of memory that gets wasted of running one CSS instance per Go ahead Christoph.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 35:47 
 Just a use case question. If people have their own domain name anyway, what in particular is the hurdle to just host it themselves like compared to like or just be happy with the domain name with solid community like the I don't, I don't think that I currently see the community as being the place to offer hosted solid ports. Like this is something that people may if this is something people want, then this is a business model. But I don't see that this is like the the task for the community to support that. To be honest, I do agree with.

elf Pavlik: 36:39 
 Your comments when it comes to hosting it yourself. So for example, for most of us, Probit don't not a problem to you know, spin up a virtual machine somewhere VPS and maybe, you know, deploy it with Docker or Kubernetes or whatever people are using. For example, if I take an example of my wife, she has a domain name, I think she uses something like wix where there's a simple instruction like hey, go to your domain register, add this to DNS and then we handle the rest for you. And I think it's a bit a different step for a person to just configure custom domain with their domain name registrar and run their own machines, maybe deal with the backups and if something goes wrong, how to fix it. So I think there is a gap there when it comes to solid community.net I agree that if someone wants to have a more professional hosting, maybe they should use a different host. This is more like a demo. But at the same time I think there's a use case here that if someone wants to just get started with Solidcommunity.net they have the domain name, they can configure it and then they can have a choice of saying hey, actually you start outgrowing this greenhouse incubation account that we offer as a courtesy and maybe you want to move to more professional provider with whatever needs, maybe bigger quotas and so on that you have. And then if you use your product custom domain from the beginning, transplanting you into like a bigger pot, it's a pod, it's not a problem anymore. So I think it actually could be beneficial even for solid community.net if there's no intention of having more like a professional hosting to have people use their domains if they have it, because then it's easy to tell them like hey, please just find a different house. You, you already kind of like grown up, move out and, and that's my idea. But either way I think it would be great if CSS supported that. So for example, I know what others think, but maybe you know, we can, if we agree that's a good functionality to have, maybe we can like, you know, look for the people who already have experience working with CSS and you know, look for a project or funding or something that someone could add this functionality. And I know that for example, Hadrian is a big proponent of using something completely different like this or something like that, that is a completely different resolution mechanism and you kind of become independent from the domain name. But as I was saying earlier, I think we should explore different possibilities at the same time without putting all the baskets in eggs in one basket. And this is like very common accessible approach that you know, for many I don't. I'm not saying that it's everyone you know, it's capable of having their domain name, but many people nowadays, especially the peoples who I would consider early adopters of solid people who, you know, use Fediverse, maybe use Indie web or something, it's probably very accessible for them. So I think if we have already capability of saying hey, bring your own domain name and then if you move, just move with your domain it's easier this way. I think this is benefit but I would like to hear other people perspectives and Jesse, please go ahead. First.

Jesse Wright: 39:56 
 There'S two conversations I want to have here and sadly I have to jump off in five minutes. The first is just to expand on the point that you said of Hadrian's interested in this. The topic of portability in general has been discussed in depth within the Linked Web storage group. There may be something in the specification that allows for layers of indirection so that you're not always referencing URLs. I don't really know how that conversation's going to go, but there are conversations happening around portability in lws. The more general conversation that I wanted to have is you're talking for this specific case around about finding developers that are interested in this particular task and seeing if they want to work together and go for grant funding. This I think applies to many topics that people are interested in and I think there's a way for this to be a bit more systematic. What I would like to know is whether it would be good to have a project board, for instance on GitHub where people can create these kind of tasks and prioritize or whether there's a different piece of infrastructure that people would prefer and this is something that in time the ODI can probably help maintain and feed back into and we can work out how funding goes but I think some systematic way of tracking this would be good. My first instinct is a project board on GitHub. I'd like to hear other suggestions if there are any.

elf Pavlik: 41:48 
 Thank you Jesse, go ahead. Theo.

Theo @thhck: 41:55 
 Yeah, it was not to answer the previous question, not on JCG remark, but I think this can be done at CSS level and I'll be interested in working on the CSS component for that. But also it could be done at the hostel level and just to spin up A new VM with a new domain name for that. At Fosdem I've met indie hoster who are basically hosting cloud services for a lot of French organization, even like a governmental organization and they just have. It's just like a team of DevOps that just spin VM and domain names and all that and host like NextCloud instance. But they are also very interested in solid and also to help develop those kind of projects in their free time and I think they could be interested in like hosting pods, helping people getting domain name linked to CSS instances and stuff like that.

elf Pavlik: 43:11 
 So.

Theo @thhck: 43:13 
 Like this, this could also be a solution.

elf Pavlik: 43:19 
 Thank you Theo. Go ahead Christoph.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 43:24 
 So that sounds really good and I don't want to derail this. Just a comment on Jesse, the project board, I'm unsure on how the management of that actually would work. If people from the community have like ideas or something, which ideas should go into that project board? Can they just edit themselves or wouldn't be like a dedicated repo with issues of ideas and then the issues like I don't know if they are old enough and have enough votes of interest then they get into a project or something. But I think that would be. I would trust you to figure that out. On the ODI side.

Marc Haddle: 44:14 
 To respond to Kristoff first because it's in memory. We need to think about this better. Elf and I this might actually be a good conversation for us to have one on one as to what you'd like this to look like on the CG side and maybe bring Jeff in as well to see how we can take what's in the catalog because there's some stuff in the catalogue around funding because really what we need to track here are funding opportunities, interest in development and functional requirements that people are after. So we do need to think about that. And that's a good point. Christophe. Theo, I was going to respond to something you said but I've now forgotten it. Could you remind me what your statement was?

Theo @thhck: 45:08 
 Sure, yeah. It was that we can make a component to CSS to make people use their own domain name, but we can also work at the hostel level. And that reminds me that at last post them I meet like in the hoster. I think.

Jesse Wright: 45:36 
 You'Ve reminded me now if those. So it would. It would be good if they are interested in hosting things. Can you either like just so we action things rather than talking about it, can you reach out to them and actually see if they're interested? If they are, we can then have conversations to work out how to support them in getting the infrastructure set up or if you don't have the bandwidth to do that, put me in contact and I can start to have those conversations.

Theo @thhck: 46:11 
 No, no, I can, I can reach out and, and see.

elf Pavlik: 46:16 
 Yeah.

Theo @thhck: 46:16 
 And take the temperature and then maybe we can have a meeting altogether.

Jesse Wright: 46:20 
 Brilliant. Thank you so much. And I've got to run now. Thank you so much everyone. Bye now.

elf Pavlik: 46:24 
 Thanks Jesse. Theo, I think Mikhail should be also connected. I would believe when Ed hosted started Mikhail was probably quite involved with the group.

Theo @thhck: 46:39 
 Oh he, he founded the indie hoster.

elf Pavlik: 46:41 
 Yeah, yeah. So yeah. And also I think I have few friends, they run Ecobytes and I think they also were like part of the. More like a you know, bigger group that were coordinating in that direction. My comment here is that I know that as I said that one can spin up a separate instance, you know, separate container, whatever you. You want to do. But I think it's very inefficient for the standpoint of resources especially if someone wants to try solid and use it, you know, occasionally just to play with it a bit. And you know, there's not so much you can do with solid nowadays to, to be honest, from my perspective, like hosting a an instance per person who wants to have a custom domain. It's probably better to get more feedback from people who host more of that. Maybe the admins of solidcommunity.net but I would imagine that would be very inefficient in terms of the infrastructure. How much? Especially the memory. I think it takes few gigabytes to host CSS and then if you multiply it by say 100 users then you probably get lots of unnecessary cost. Even if you know, someone just uses a few times a week to try something new and just running those VMs. So this time again maybe I'm just misunderstanding something but I think it would be way less efficient than just allowing CSS single instance to have this multi tenancy with custom domain. And when you set about creating component. I had an early conversation on. On Matrix with Yachim and maybe a little more complicated because he mentioned that you know, it wasn't designed for that really. And the way that you know you have the either paths or subdomains. The, the. The whole way that it works with. With URLs it may be a little more complicated but again someone, someone would have to evaluate it and maybe make a proposal. So I would say maybe next week I think it's Hadran host posting the. The weekly call. I would like to bring it up again especially this topic, what we just discussed with Jesse, you know, how we can have like a project board. Myself I think about something like, you know, back in the days people were using something like users voice that you can upvote down, vote different ideas and so on. And yeah, maybe you can start slowly like distilling what actually people want in community. For me that would be one of the priorities. To be honest, if I didn't have my current project I need to focus on, I'll probably be open to pick it up myself. But you know, I definitely cannot do it, you know, within next almost a year. So yeah, that would be for me the next step to, to look at this more general way of, of coordinating what are the priorities and maybe specify focus projects that people can pick and maybe look funding. Go ahead, Theo.

Theo @thhck: 49:38 
 Yeah, so I totally agree with you that it's a waste of resource to spin up a VM just for CSS instance. But I think in the hostels still like just for setting up DNS or just for people who don't have DNS and all that. I think they have all the like, they have all the knowledge and experience to maybe set up that quickly and make it like easy for user to set it up.

elf Pavlik: 50:04 
 So.

Theo @thhck: 50:06 
 Yeah, maybe they can help in other ways. And also yeah, I think like.

elf Pavlik: 50:20 
 It.

Theo @thhck: 50:20 
 Would be great if we can have like a, like harden like a production ready CSS and maybe also this can be part of a lot of improvement to CSS that we could do. Also I think there is a lot of stuff to do in the security side and there is an grant for 1st of June and I was already thinking of making, asking for a grant for a few CSS improvements and maybe we can put a bunch of stuff in there and make like a grant. Yeah. And maybe talk together about a grant for that could include also this DNS stuff.

elf Pavlik: 51:05 
 Okay, that sounds promising. It said first of June, so that's practically two weeks.

Theo @thhck: 51:16 
 Yes. Okay, so I think it's enough time to make a grand proposal.

elf Pavlik: 51:21 
 I agree. But if there's something we would like to coordinate and maybe even have like a clear way of communicating, we publish a project board and then in your grant you can link to it say hey, this is something that it's really demanded by the community. That's like a way to show it. I think it would be like a plus for your proposal that you could bucket with something saying hey, it's not just my personal idea, I think it would be cool. But actually it's something that you know, there's a clear signal from the solid community that many people would like to have this functionality available. So it's. It's mostly saying if in those two weeks, we can move a little faster than usual and. And have something that you can use as a kind of reference to say, hey, this is something that can back your proposal and hopefully help you secure funding to work on it. Okay, we have a few minutes left. Are there any final remarks, questions, suggestions, proposal for the next week agenda? I know that Hadrian will be preparing it, but the part is available here. But also, if you have an idea to just throw out, I will be happy to coordinate with Hadrian and propose it for next week. Okay, so reminder, tomorrow we have a solid practitioners meeting. It's in the CG calendar. If you subscribed, you should see it in your calendar. I'm looking to Christoph's presentation about delegation. This is super exciting to me. And with that in mind, I wish you all good evening, afternoon, whatever time zone you are at, and hopefully see you tomorrow. And if not, next week.

Christoph Braun (KIT)  uvdsl: 53:05 
 Thank you, Pavlik. All right, bye, everybody.

Marc Haddle: 53:09 
 Yeah, bye, guys.

Theo @thhck: 53:11 
 Thanks, Pav.

elf Pavlik: 53:12 
 Goodbye.

